Background and Motivation:
• Limited research : Most research focuses on 
enhancing long-term human activities such as 
walking and running; However, very limited 
research is out there on short-term fast activities 
such as jumping [1]. 
• Low effectiveness: Exoskeleton suits are developed 
to improve vertical jumping. Most active 
exoskeleton are typically heavy with not much 
improvement on the vertical jump height [2, 3]. On 
the other hand, passive exoskeletons are lighter 
and incorporate springs to store and release energy 
during the dumping process. However, they only 
show improvement at deeper squat position [1].
• Upper lower-body cooperation: It is known that 
arm swings improve vertical jumping height, yet no 
exoskeleton that incorporates upper-body 
extremities has been developed

Objectives:
1. Develop a semi-active exoskeleton that:
a. Is relatively light compared to other active
exoskeletal suits.
b. Has a mechanism placed on the hip and
connected to the back of the heel to perform
faster ankle plantarflexion motion.
c. uses upper-body extremities (arms) to
provide extra energy needed to help lowerbody extremities achieve higher vertical
jump.
2. Conduct experiments to determine:
a. Efficacy of the suit to enhance vertical
jumping height

Research Questions:
1. Can arms be used to help legs perform higher 
vertical jumps?
2. Can cables be used to transfer upper-body energy 
to lower-body extremities?
3. Can the deigned suit be relatively light compared 
to other active exoskeleton suits?.
4. Is the suit able to allow the user to move freely 
when the mechanism is not active?

Aims and Methods:
• Aim 1: Design an exoskeletal suit that allows the user to pull the cables connected to 
heel (s) to rotate the ankle joint(s) in the plantarflexion direction
➢ Method: Use a belt to hold a gearbox and two recoil devices, one on each side of 
the gearbox. use an input cable that connects a handle to one recoil device and an 
output cable that connects the second recoiled device to the back of the heel. The 
user would pull the handles to activate the mechanism and rotate the ankle joint 
as the jumping process starts from squatting position until toe takeoff phase.
• Aim 2: Design a lightweight exoskeletal suit
➢ Method: Optimize the smallest gearbox and recoil device needed to convert the 
cable length pulled by the user’s hands to the cable length that matches the range 
of motion (ROM) of the ankle joint. 
• Aim 3: Optimize cable routing 
➢ Method: Identify the best route for the cable connecting the heel to the recoil 
device to minimize energy loss and to rotate the ankle joint in the plantarflexion 
direction.
• Aim 4: Develop a gearbox capable to achieve 12 to 1 conversion ratio.
➢ Method: Design a plantar gearbox due to their small size to capability advantage 
over other types of gearboxes. 
• Aim 5: Allow the user to move freely when the mechanism is disengaged and to 
maintain cable-tension at all times.
➢ Method: use a recoil device for each cable to maintain cable tension. The recoil 
device connected to the input cable is also used to engage and disengage upper 
and lower-body cooperation
