Background and Motivation:
• Low portability: Some musical instruments are 
heavy and bulky such as cellos, making them 
inconvenient to transport from one place to 
another.
• Time- and location- constraints: Playing the cello 
can be disrupting, particularly during late hours or 
in a shared space.
• Limited learning and practicing effectiveness: 
There is no feedback provided from musical 
instruments to quantitatively assess the musical 
performance

Objectives:
1. Develop an electronic portable cello that preserves 
the integrity of a regular cello and provides a cello 
like experience.
2. Develop a quieter cello to allow practicing at night 
and shared places without jeopardizing the music 
quality.
3. Create a mobile app with a musical instrument 
digital interface (MIDI) to access the MMI 
wirelessly for tuning, synthesizing, and recording 
of music being played
4. Conduct experimental evaluations on the 
implemented functions and assess the practicality 
and believability.

Research Questions:
1. Which mechanical design can effectively break 
down a regular cello to a portable size while keeping 
the believability of the instrument once assembled 
and played?
2. Can the cello be made quieter for surrounding but 
the user can still enjoy the music through a 
headset?
3. What type of sensors can capture the user inputs 
(e.g., bowing) with the desired accuracy and 
resolution?
4. How should the measured electric signals from the 
sensors be transmitted, processed, and synthesized?
5. How to provide performance feedback to improve 
the individual’s practice session?

Aims and Methods:
• Aim 1: Compact, quieter, portable mechanical design of a musical instrument
➢ Method: Identify the most vital and necessary components of the cello; identify 
the fixed measurements for a 4/4 (Full) size acoustic cello; break down the vital 
components of the cello to create a compact version that can withstand bending 
force exerted by the strings on the cello’s body [1] and reduce the overall size of 
the cello to increase ease in portability; eliminate the voice box of the cello and 
replace the strings with silent strings to reduce loudness.
• Aim 2: Sensor selection and instrumentation for digitizing user inputs
➢ Method: Identify sensors and instrumentation methods to digitize the user inputs 
in terms of vibration of the strings; Take user inputs, analyze them, and provide 
feedback on user's playing for learning purposes.
• Aim 3: Fabrication, integration of mechanical and electrical components, and 
programming an on-board computer
➢ Method: Use a single board computer and algorithms for sensor data 
acquisition/processing/conversion to MIDI, which then can wirelessly transmit the 
MIDI data to a mobile device via Bluetooth
• Aim 4: Develop a mobile app for user-device interface and control
➢ Method: Create a user interface (iOS or Android app) to receive the MIDI data from 
the device, convert it to respective sound, and provide functionalities for real-time 
playing in headphones and for performance feedback capability
